# File Structure

## Backend Library

The files in the library repository follow the basic structure:

- **src**: The source code directory. If running from source, this directory should be added to the Python path.
  - **cv3_backend_lib**: the library package, containing the shared functions and data models.
    - **data**: a data folder containing non-code files, like GraphQL schemas, resource files, etc. This folder is packaged by the build system upon release.
    - **etc**: arbitrary files that provide configurations and other data, such as constant definitions, `marshmallow` schemas, etc.
    - **graphql**: module dedicated to graphql support. GraphQL in CV3 is a wrapper on normal functions, so this module is not imported elsewhere (except by the main server file), and is self-contained for GraphQL functions.
    - **models**: these files define the data models used within the system. They minimise imports from other modules, except for the `etc` and `util` modules. For child classes that serve as more detailed versions of parent classes, they are defined in a submodule named after the parent class.
    - **query**: the query driver handling either internal database queries or network-based queries for supported protocols and implementations.
    - **util**: utility functions that are used across the library and cannot be packed into any specific classes, such as logging and security wrappers.
    - **views**: the definition of Quart blueprints.
- **tests**: the test directory, containing all test files for the library. Within each test type, the file structure mirros the module they are testing.
  - **function_test**: These tests focus on individual endpoint functions, running them with mocked database drivers. They test all internal functions of the endpoint, excluding database and network calls.
  - **unit_test**: unit tests, focusing on classes and functions on an individual level.
- **instance_config.json(.example)**: the (example) config file. When running from source code, this file needs to be present in all microservice folders.
- **LICENSE, READEME.md**: the license and readme files.
- **pyproject.toml, requirements.txt, requirements-test.txt**: the build and dependency files.
- ***.nuitka-package.config.yaml**: the Nuitka build configuration files. These files are used to build the source code into binary executables.

## Frontend library

The files in the library repository follow the structure:

- **lib**: the flutter source root.
  - **models**: the data models.
    - **providers**: the state management providers. All providers are injected into the app at the root level, some are chained with proxy providers for inter-provider state access.
  - **pages**: the UI pages.
  - **routes**: the router definition, and the router file generated by `auto_route`.
  - **services**: the service classes handling web requests to the backend.
  - **utils**: utility functions that are used across the library.
  - **widgets**: the UI components that are reused across different pages.
